well hey everyone and welcome to this
video on how to interview someone on a
podcast and how to do so well my name is
wade patterson my youtube channel is all
about impactful communication and making
you a better communicator if it's your
first time here why don't you start off
by subscribing because i promise that i
will put out a lot of video content
about how you can be a more impactful
communicator which is super important
whether it's personal life or business
communication is key and i think that
this channel is going to give you some
value now if you're either a host of a
podcast or thinking about being a host
of a podcast i want to start off by
saying congratulations that is so
awesome it's something that is not easy
to do and the fact that you were taking
that on is something that you should be
very proud of hopefully the tips in this
video will either give you the knowledge
to get started on that podcast journey
or if you're an existing podcast host or
youtube interview series host
i might even be able to give you a tip
or two to take your content to the next
level the first important thing to
determine is what the style and the
format of your podcast is going to be
there are audiences for all different
styles and types of podcasts so maybe
you're the type that is really informed
and you're research driven and you want
to help
make your audience more intelligent
fair enough there are a lot of people
who want to do that who want to become
more intelligent or maybe you're the
type who is laid back you want to have a
pint of beer as you're chatting and
interviewing people you want it to be
completely just off topic
minimal research
having a laugh
that is also great content that will
have an audience maybe more for the
entertainment side but that is the first
important thing to determine is what is
your style of podcast what is the style
of interview
and then when you land a guest
allowing them to have that information
of what the format is going to be like
now once you get a few episodes under
your belt of course you can send that
guest previous episodes that they can do
some research and see okay this is going
to be the format but that is the first
thing to determine for you if you're
just getting started with podcasting my
first piece of advice for conducting a
really great interview either way
whether it's laid back or whether it's a
research driven podcast is to still do
some level of research on your guest
i've seen way too many podcasts out
there that it's almost like the host has
never heard of this person who they are
interviewing and unless your show is
really niche and it's almost comedic in
the way that you
just go about the randomness of it i
think it's can be almost insulting to
the guest and really take away from the
quality of the interview if you as the
interviewer haven't done your homework
you haven't researched that particular
person now this starts from the very
beginning of how you open up your
podcast and some people hit the record
button and just jump into it and start
going and that's okay others such as the
ones that i'm involved with i'm the host
of a couple podcasts i like to read out
a little description of what the show is
all about sometimes that can be a
pre-recorded piece of content depending
on your format and your editing and then
i like to jump right in by giving a bio
of the guest basically
four or five sentences that explains who
that individual is
this is something that i think is so
incredibly important because i can't
tell you how many interviews and
podcasts i've listened to where the
first question is so can you describe
yourself and your background for our
audience
to me that is so lazy you as the host
have this opportunity to set the scene
and sure that individual can probably
explain their background better than you
can but if you at least start off the
conversation with a little bit of a bio
a little bit of an introduction it shows
your audience that you know about this
person you're about to interview and it
makes that guest feel a bit more
comfortable because they may even be
impressed like wow you did some homework
one of my favorite things to do in that
bio is to have a sentence or a little
piece of information or a fun fact where
the interview guest knows that that is
hard information to find that's not just
a website bio that isn't just
something that is easily on their
twitter profile that is something that
shows i've watched a full interview that
they've been in previously and they made
a slight comment in minute 43 that
showed me that little piece of
information and i like to include that
within the bio that i read because right
away you're gonna grow a bit of a
connection with your guests because they
will be impressed they'll be
appreciative that you took that time and
that you're prepared for this interview
so the next part to think about is the
questions that you're going to ask your
guest and again this should sort of fit
the style or the format of your show if
one episode it was an incredibly serious
interview and then in the next one it's
just almost completely a joke
maybe that works with your style but
there's a good chance that you may
gain and lose audience members and there
won't be that level of consistency
whereas if an audience members sticking
with you they know what to expect they
know your style they're probably
listening for a reason so you want to
give some level of consistency with the
types of questions that you're asking
your different guests an important piece
of advice here is to have more questions
than you think you will need i learned
this lesson way back probably 15 years
ago when i was beginning my career as a
journalist and i'll tell you the story i
was working at a small town newspaper
and they were doing a story on oil
fields and those who are working in the
oil field industry and i had to
interview a company owner
and i came prepared with six questions
and they were also yes or no questions
so i asked the first question and the
response i got was yes
okay on to question number two the
response i got was no
on to question three pretty soon under
five minutes my interview was done i had
no other questions to ask and i went
back to the newsroom with my tail
between my legs because i did not have
enough information to write a news story
based on this interview and the truth
was that i didn't do my homework i
didn't do enough research i wasn't well
enough prepared and that is the art of
an interview when you're on a podcast
especially as a podcast host
is that some guests will answer very
quickly other guests
you'll ask them two questions and you
will have an hour-long podcast because
they just go on and on and on and in
both situations
you want
to have a situation where you're
prepared
to again have enough questions to extend
that interview to
an average length of whatever your show
is typically let's say it's an hour and
you ask your first 10 questions and it's
been five minutes well now you've either
got to really quickly be thinking of
follow up questions or hold your guests
accountable to expand on their short
answers or in the other situation where
maybe the guest is rambling and there's
a lot of really key information you want
to ask that person about but you know
time wise that it's going to be a
three-hour conversation if you try to do
that you may have to interject sometimes
without doing so rudely because you want
to really
allow your guests to to give their full
answer but maybe there's a chance to to
quickly jump in and inject a little spin
that you want to do because as the
podcast hosts it is up to you to control
the conversation and your audience may
be thinking to themselves why are you
letting this individual go on and on and
on and on whereas if there's an
opportunity to jump in and redirect the
conversation a little more focused on
what you want to talk about then that is
difficult but maybe a good strategy to
give your audience the best content
possible right from the beginning of the
podcast conversation you want to have
high energy
you want to be smiling as soon as that
individual jumps into the zoom call or
however you're interviewing them you
want to say their name right away and
welcome them and answer any questions
that they have maybe before you hit the
record button but remember that your
guess energy will often match your
energy so if you're laid back and quiet
and frowning your guest probably isn't
going to have too high of energy but if
you're really happy and you're excited
that they're there they're going to be
excited about the conversation as well
and it's going to be a fun experience
for both of you one thing that is really
difficult not to do if you're not used
to interviewing somebody
is adding in unnecessary sounds
sometimes these sounds like laughter if
your guest says something to make you
laugh i'm not saying don't laugh yes by
all means laugh but some people as they
listen to somebody talk they go hmm
interesting
right right yeah yeah
as an audience member if that's all
they're hearing coming through their
speakers is the host
like uming and agreeing
verbally
that is going to be something that is
not really enjoyable to listen to as the
audience it is a great skill to be able
to
if it's video give verbal nods or verbal
affirmation that you are listening you
are engaging with what your guest is
saying but by limiting your actual audio
response it's going to be less
distracting for your audience this isn't
always the case there's still
opportunities to agree or especially if
your guests ask something and go
and go along with what they're saying
but don't overdo it be mindful and the
best way to be mindful is if you're the
actual one editing the content you'll
see really quickly or you'll hear
all of those sounds that you are making
eliminate those sounds it's going to be
a much cleaner experience for your
audience they're going to enjoy
listening to it now some podcasts or
youtube interview series are live and
they're live streamed others are
pre-recorded
it's really key to
know and let your guests know
which of those routes you're going so
that they can be prepared
some guests even want to know all of the
questions you're going to ask in advance
that's up to you i like to sometimes
give general themes that i want to talk
about but it's hard to give a guest all
of the questions because often in
interviews you will think up naturally
follow up questions that you want to ask
also keep in mind that it sounds a
little less natural i once was doing a
podcast with somebody and it was clear
because it wasn't through video it was
just through audio i could hear them
reading responses even though i couldn't
see them
the way their voice was it sounded like
they were reading answers because i had
sent them the questions in advance it
was a bit of a mistake on my part so
they verbatim read out pre-written
answers that they had and it was
probably the worst podcast i've done
because it wasn't a genuine conversation
it didn't feel genuine instead you want
to give the guest a heads up to prepare
what types of topics you might be
talking about but you don't have to give
every single question word for word and
let them know that things may come up
randomly but here's the general themes
that you're going to discuss final
thoughts are to
keep your guests informed on how the
process is going to work that includes
afterward if it's a pre-recorded
interview telling them what date you
anticipate that this will go live one
reason for this as well this is a bit of
alpha bonus tip is that
if you're a small podcast and your guest
has a bit of an audience you can ask him
or her if they'd be comfortable tweeting
out that episode announcement when the
episode's live most people will be happy
to do that if they've agreed to the
interview they probably don't
want nobody to hear it they probably
want many people to hear that
conversation so if that's the case you
can ask them to share that information
out and if they do so that may give your
small podcast or youtube show a bit of a
boost when it comes to audience so one
thing to keep in mind there going back
to the beginning if you were a brand new
host or somebody with an existing
podcast i think that's awesome
congratulations i hope this video gave
you a little bit of value if i missed
something ask me in the comments i love
jumping in the comment section and
talking about areas i missed or adding
more value if i can like this video
subscribe to my channel would mean so
much
thank you so much for taking the time to
watch this and i hope you have an
awesome day